# Neural-Networks-and-Deep-Learning-Models

A Neural Network is a powerful machine learning technique that is modelled after neurons in the brain. Neural networks can rival the performance of the most robust statistical algorithms without having to worry about *any* statistical theory. Because of this, neural networks are an in-demand skill for any data scientist. Big tech companies use an advanced form of neural networks called **deep neural networks** to analyze images and natural language processing datasets. Retailers like Amazon and Apple are using neural networks to classify their consumers to provide targeted marketing as well as behavior training for robotic control systems. Due to the ease of implementation, neural networks also can be used by small businesses and for personal use to make more cost-effective decisions on investing and purchasing business materials. Neural networks are scalable and effective—it is no wonder why they are so popular.In this repository we will explore how neural networks are designed and how effective they can be using the **TensorFlow** platform in Python. With neural networks wer can combine the performance of multiple statistical and machine learning models with minimal effort. In fact, more time is spent preprocessing the data to be compatible with the model than spent coding the neural network model, which can be just a few lines of code.  

In this project we work with a mock company, Alphabet Soup, a foundation dedicated to supporting organizations that protect the environment, improve people's well-being, and unify the world. This company has raised and donated a great sum of money to invest in life saving technologies and organized re-forestation groups around the world. Our task will be to analyze the impact of each donation and vet potential recepients. This helps ensure that the foundation's money is being used effectively. Unfortunately, not every dollar the foundation donates is impactful. Sometimes another organization may recieve funds and disapear. As a result, we must work as data scientists to predict which organizations are worth donating to and which are too high risk. This problem seems too complex for statistical and machine learning models we have used. Instead, we will design and train a deep neural network which will evaluate all types of input data and produce a clear decision making result.


## Notes

### Neural Networks  
Neural Networks, or artificial neural networks, are a set of algorithms that are modeled after the human brain. THey are an advanced for of machine learning that recognizes patterns and features in input data and procides a clear quantitative output. In its simplest form, a neural network contains layers of neurons, which perform individual computations. These computations are connected and weighed against one another until the neurons reach the finals layer, which returns either a numerical result, or an encoded categorical result. A neural network may be used to create a classification algorithm that determines if an input belongs to one category versus another. Alternatively, neural network models can behave like a regression model, where a dependant variable can be predicted from independent input variables. Therefore, neural networks are seen as an alternative to many models, such as random forestm or multiple linear regession.  

There are a number of advantages to using a neural network instead of a traditional statistical or machine learning model. For instance, neural networks are effective at detecting complex, nonlinear relationships. Additionally, neural networks have greater tolerance for messy data and can learn to ignore noisy characteristics in data. The two biggest disadvantages to using a neural network model are that the layers of neurons are often too complex to dissect and understand (creating a black box problem), and neural networks are prone to overfitting (characterizing the training data so well that it does not generalize to test data effectively). However, both of the disadvantages can be mitigated and accounted for.

### The Perceptron  
The perceptron model, pioneered in the 1950's by Frank Rosenblatt, is a single neural network unit, and it mimics a biological neuron by recieving input data, weighing the information, and producing a clear output. The perceptron model has four major components:
- **input values,** typically labelled as x or 𝝌 (chi)
- A **weight coefficient** for each input value, typically labelled as w or ⍵ (omega).
- **Bias,** a constant value added to the input the influence the final decision, typically labelled as **w_0**
